If I have too austerelypunish'd you,
Your compensation makesamends, for I
Have given you here athird of my own life,
Or that for which I live;
who once again I tender tothy hands: all thy vexations
Were but my trials of thylove and thou haststrangely stood the test.
Here afore Heaven, Iratify this my rich gift.
O Ferdinand,
Do not smile at me that Iboast here of,
For thou shalt find shewill outstrip all praise
And make it halt behindher.
I do believe it against anoracle.
Then, as my gift and thineown acquisition
Worthily purchased, takemy daughter.
But if thou dost break hervirgin-knot before
All sanctimoniousceremonies may
With full and holy rite beminister'd,
No sweet aspersion shallthe heavens let fall
To make this contractgrow: but barren hate,
Sour-eyed disdain anddiscord shall bestrew
The union of your bed withweeds so loathly
That you shall hate itboth: therefore take heed,
As Hymen's lamps shalllight you.
As I hope
For quiet days, fair issueand long life,
With such love as 'tisnow, the murkiest den,
The most opportune place,the strong'st suggestion,
Our worser genius can,shall never melt
Mine honour into lust, totake away
The edge of that day'scelebration
When I shall think: orPhoebus' steeds are founder'd,
Or Night kept chain'dbelow.
Fairly spoke.
Sit then.
And talk with her;
she is thine own.
What, Ariel.
My industrious servant,Ariel.
What would my potentmaster? Here I am.
Thou and thy meanerfellows your last service
Did worthily perform; butI must use you
In such another trick.
Go bring the rabble,
O'er whom I give theepower, here to this place:
Incite them to quickmotion; for I must
Bestow upon the eyes ofthis young couple
Some vanity of mine art:it is my promise,
And they expect it fromme.
-Presently? -Ay, with atwink.
Before you can say "come"and "go,"
And breathe twice and cry"so, so,"
Each one, tripping on histoe,
Will be here with mop andmow.
Do you love me, master?
No?
Dearly my delicate Ariel.
Do not approach
Till thou dost hear mecall.
Well, I conceive.
Look thou be true; do notgive dalliance
Too much the rein: thestrongest oaths are straw
To the fire i' the blood:be more abstemious,
Or else, good night yourvow.
I warrant you sir;
The white cold virgin snowupon my heart
Abates the ardour of myliver.
Well.
Now come, my Ariel, bringa corollary,
Rather than want a spirit:appear and pertly.
No tongue.
All eyes.
Be silent.
Honour, riches,
marriage-blessing,
Long continuance, andincreasing,
Hourly joys
be still upon you!
Juno sings her blessingson you.
Earth's increase, foisonplenty,
Barns and garners neverempty,
Vines with clusteringbunches growing,
Plants with goodly burdenbowing;
Spring come to you at thefarthest
In the very end ofharvest.
Scarcity and want shallshun you;
Ceres' blessing so is onyou.
This is a most majesticvision, and
Harmonious charmingly.
May I be bold
To think these spirits?
Spirits, which by mine art
I have from their confinescall'd to enact
My present fancies.
Let me live here ever;
So rare a wonder'd fatherand a wise
Makes this place Paradise.
Sweet, now, silence.
Juno and Ceres whisperseriously;
There's something else todo: hush, and be mute,
Or else our spell ismarr'd.
You nymphs, call'd Naiads,of the windring brooks,
With your sedged crownsand ever-harmless looks,
Leave your crisp channelsand on this green land
Answer your summons; Junodoes command:
Come, temperate nymphs,and help to celebrate
A contract of true love;be not too late.
You sunburnt sicklemen, ofAugust weary,
Come hither from thefurrow and be merry:
Make holiday; yourrye-straw hats put on
And these fresh nymphsencounter every one
In country footing.
I had forgot that foulconspiracy
Of the beast Caliban andhis confederates
Against my life: theminute of their plot
Is almost come.
Well done!
Avoid; no more!
This is strange: yourfather's in some passion
That works him strongly.
Never till this day
Saw I him touch'd withanger so distemper'd.
You do look, my son, in amoved sort,
As if you were dismay'd:be cheerful, sir.
Our revels now are ended.
These our actors,
As I foretold you, wereall spirits and
Are melted into air, intothin air:
And, like the baselessfabric of this vision,
The cloud-capp'd towers,the gorgeous palaces,
The solemn temples, thegreat globe itself,
Yea all which it inherit,shall dissolve
And, like this insubstantialpageant faded,
Leave not a rack behind.
We are such stuff
As dreams are made on, andour little life
Is rounded with a sleep.
Sir, I am vex'd;
Bear with my weakness; myold brain is troubled:
Be not disturb'd by myinfirmity:
If you be pleased, retireinto my cell
And there repose: a turnor two I'll walk,
To still my beating mind.
We wish your peace.
Come with a thought Ithank thee, Ariel: come.
Thy thoughts I cleave to.
What's thy pleasure?
Spirit, we must prepare tomeet with Caliban.
Ay, my commander: when Ipresented Ceres,
I thought to have toldthee of it, but I fear'd
Lest I might anger thee.
Say again, where didstthou leave these varlets?
I told you, sir, they werered-hot with drinking;
So full of valour thatthey smote the air
For breathing of theirfaces; beat the ground
For kissing of their feet;yet always bending
Towards their project.
Then I beat my tabour;
At which, like unback'd colts,they prick'd their ears,
Advanced their eyelids,lifted up their noses
As they smelt music: so Icharm'd their ears
That calf-like they mylowing follow'd through
Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes,pricking goss and thorns,
Which entered their frailshins: at last I left them
I' the filthy-mantled poolbeyond your cell,
There dancing up to thechins, that the foul lake
O'erstunk their feet.
This was well done, mybird.
Thy shape invisible retainthou still:
The trumpery in my house,go bring it hither,
For stale to catch thesethieves.
I go, I go.
A devil, a born devil, onwhose nature
Nurture can never stick;on whom my pains,
Humanely taken, all, alllost, quite lost;
And as with age his bodyuglier grows,
So his mind cankers.
I will plague them all,
Even to roaring.
Hang them upon this line.
Pray you, tread softly,that the blind mole may not
Hear a foot fall: we noware near his cell.
Monster, your fairy,
which you say is aharmless fairy,
hath done little better thanplayed the Jack with us.
Monster, I do smell allhorse-piss;
at which my nose is ingreat indignation.
So is mine.
Do you hear, monster?
If I should take adispleasure against you,look you--
Thou wert but a lostmonster.
Good my lord, give me thyfavour still.
Be patient, for the prizeI'll bring thee to
Shall hoodwink this mischance:therefore speak softly.
All's hush'd as midnightyet.
Ay, but to lose ourbottles in the pool.
There is not only disgrace anddishonour in that, monster,
but an infinite loss.
That's more to me than mywetting:
yet this is your harmlessfairy, monster.
I will fetch off mybottle,
though I be o'er ears formy labour.
Prithee, my king, bequiet.
Seest thou here,
This is the mouth o' thecell: no noise, and enter.
Do that good mischiefwhich may make this island
Thine own for ever, and I,thy Caliban,
For aye thy foot-licker.
Give me thy hand.
I do begin to have bloodythoughts.
O king Stephano!
O peer!
O worthy Stephano!
Look what a wardrobe hereis for thee!
Let it alone, thou fool;it is but trash.
Monster!
We know what belongs to afrippery.
O king Stephano!
Put off that gown,Trinculo;
by this hand, I'll havethat gown.
Thy grace shall have it.
The dropsy drown thisfool; what do you mean
To dote thus on suchluggage?
Let alone
And do the murder first:if he awake,
From toe to crown he'll fillour skins with pinches,
Make us strange stuff.
Be you quiet, monster.
Mistress line, is not thismy jerkin?
Now is the jerkin underthe line:
now, jerkin, you are liketo lose your hair
and prove a bald jerkin.
Do, do: we steal by lineand level,
an't like your grace.
I thank thee for that jest;here's a garment for't:
wit shall not gounrewarded while I am kingof this country.
"Steal by line and level" isan excellent pass of pate;
there's another garmentfor't.
Monster, come, put somelime upon your fingers,
and away with the rest.
I will have none on't: weshall lose our time,
And all be turn'd tobarnacles, or to apes
With foreheads villanouslow.
Monster, lay-to yourfingers:
help to bear this away wheremy hogshead of wine is,
or I'll turn you out of mykingdom:
go to, carry this.
And this.
Ay, and this.
Hey, Mountain, hey!
Silver, there it goes,Silver!
Fury, Fury!
There, Tyrant!
Go charge my goblins thatthey grind their joints
With dry convulsions,shorten up their sinews
With aged cramps, and morepinch-spotted make them
Than pard or cat o'mountain.
Hark, they roar.
Let them be huntedsoundly.
At this hour
Lies at my mercy all mineenemies:
Shortly shall all mylabours end, and thou
Shalt have the air atfreedom: for a little
Follow, and do me service.
Now does my project gatherto a head: